tavery-Observability:RN Bug Batch (#94785)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/ocp-4-19-release-notes.adoc

[id="ocp-release-note-observability-bug-fixes_{context}"]
==== Observability

> * Previously, the *Silence details* page had an incorrect link URL missing the `namespace` parameter, causing users to be unable to silence specific alerts in the dev console for certain versions, resulting in poor alert management. With this release, the undefined link in `SilencedAlertsList` has been fixed using the active namespace. As a result, the 'No Alert found' error is now resolved, and the *Alert details* page in {product-title} Monitoring is navigated to correctly. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-48142[OCPBUGS-48142])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, the *Silence details* page had an incorrect link URL that was missing the `namespace` parameter, which caused users to be unable to silence specific alerts in the dev console for certain versions. This resulted in poor alert management. With this release, the undefined link in `SilencedAlertsList` has been fixed using the active namespace. As a result, the 'No Alert found' error is now resolved, and the *Alert details* page in {product-title} Monitoring is navigated to correctly. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-48142[OCPBUGS-48142])
```

> * Previously, console updates deprecated PF4, rendering an incorrect layout of the monitoring plug-in table rendered. With this release, the tables and styles are upgraded to PF5 and are rendered correctly. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-47535[OCPBUGS-47535])

Reviewer: Expand both instances of PatternFly.

* Previously, a namespace was passed to a full cluster query on the alerts graph, and this caused the tenancy API path to be used. The API lacked permissions to retrieve data so no data was shown on the alerts graph. With this release, the namespace is no longer passed to a full cluster query for an alert graph. A non-tenancy API path is now used because this API has the correct permissions to retrieve data. Data is not available on an alert graph. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-45896[OCPBUGS-45896])

* Previously, a {rh-rhacm-first} Alerting UI refactor update caused an `isEmpty` check to go missing on the *Observe > Metrics* menu. The missing check inverted the behavior of the *Show all Series* and *Hide all Series* states. This release readds `isEmpty` check so that *Show all Series* is now visible when series are hidden and *Hide all Series* is now visible when the series are shown. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-45816[OCPBUGS-45816]) 

> * Previously, on the *Observe -> Alerting -> Silences* tab, the `DateTime` component changed the ordering of an event and its value. Because of this issue, you could not edit the `until` parameter for a silent alert in either the *Developer* or the *Administrator* perspective. With this release, a fix means to the `DateTime` component means that you can now edit the `until` parameter for a silent alert. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-45801[OCPBUGS-45801]) 

Reviewer: @opayne1, thoughts on how this one should be with the arrival of the combined perspective?

Reviewer 2: I actually think it might be okay as is since that perspective mention is on the "previously" side of the note. I am not sure if that makes thinks too confusing. We could also just remove all together since it was an issue in both perspectives. So:
```suggestion
* Previously, on the *Observe -> Alerting -> Silences* tab, the `DateTime` component changed the ordering of an event and its value. Because of this issue, you could not edit the `until` parameter for a silent alert in the web console. With this release, a fix means to the `DateTime` component means that you can now edit the `until` parameter for a silent alert. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-45801[OCPBUGS-45801]) 
```
